So there are two more routes
which I want to register here
and the first extra route
is a put route to /todo/:todoid.
The idea is that requests reaching this route
simply replace a todo.
So here we also get our three arguments
but now in here I wanna override that todo.
A todo, which I identify by this todoId.
So the tid for todoId
can be extracted from
req.params and then they're simply
.todoId, which is available because
we got this here.
And with that, I want to find the index
of that todo in my todos array
so we get our todoIndex here.
We're reaching out to todos,
and there we can call findIndex
to find the index of some element
and this takes a function which executes
on every array item, so on every todo item therefore.
I want to return true if the todoItem
I'm currently looking at has an id
that's equal to my extracted tid here,
so to this todoId I extracted from the URL.
That will give me the todoIndex
of the todo I want to update.
I'll now check if todoIndex is greater or equal than zero,
otherwise we didn't find a valid index,
and if it is I want to continue,
otherwise, I will return a response
where I set the status code to 404
because we weren't able to find
a todo with that index, and I sent back a message
where I say "Could not find todo for this id"
or whatever you want to return.
In this if block however,
we know that have a valid todo.
So here I want to reach out to my todos
for that todoIndex and replace the todos
stored there with a new object.
Now again, here are types of complaints
if I just would keep the code as it is
because an empty object is not a valid todo
and that's great, that's exactly the support we want.
So here we can now set the id to either a brand new id
or we keep the existing todo's id
to just update the text.
That's what I'm going to do
by reaching out to the existing todo
and then there, I'll just get the id
and keep that id and just update the text
to the request body text,
which I now got on the incoming request.
With that, we updated the todo
and then I wanna return response status 200
and also reply with a message
where I say "Updated todo"
and maybe I'll return all my todos here.
Side note, I forgot to return
a response here in the post request.
Of course I want to do that here as well.
Set the status code to 201 to confirm
that something was inserted
and then maybe a message of "Added todo."
Return the new todo which we did add
and maybe even return the overall
todos array if we want to.
Of course, it's up to you which kind
of data you want to return.
Side note, you need to add the return keyword
in front of this response here
to avoid that this response and code runs as well.
We only want to send back one response
and therefore we need to return
to avoid that this code executes as well.
And with that, we added the put route.
Now it's time for the delete route.
So on the router, we can register a delete route,
maybe for /todo/:todoId, so similar to the put route,
just with a different word.
There we also get the request,
response, and this next function.
Then in here, we of course want
to update the todos to get rid of one.
For that, I'll convert my todos array
from a const to a variable with the let keyword
to ensure that we actually can override it
with a brand new array because I want
to get rid of a todo by creating a new array
which is the old array minus the deleted array.
For that, we can simply set todos
equal to todos.filter to filter out a todo.
For that, it runs a function on every todo
and if we return true in that function, we keep the todo.
If we return false, we delete it.
I want to return false if the todoItem.id
is not equal to the request params todoId
because if this is equal, I know it's the todo
I wanna delete so I want to return false
for that match, hence this exclamation mark here,
to make sure that the new todos array
does not contain the todo with this todoId here.
And that's all.
Now we can send back a response
where we say "Deleted todo"
and maybe if you want to,
return the entire array of todos.
So that's a very simple REST API
with four routes which allow us to
get, create, update, and delete our todos.
Now, let's also test this
and see whether everything works
before we then work a little bit more
on the project structure and how we split our code
and before I also share
some other information about TypeScript.